Some people believe that in today’s modern times, with increased access to various forms of entertainment, it is no longer necessary for parents to spend time reading to children or telling them stories. While it may be true that children today have access to more stimulation than ever before, I fear this argument overlooks the many other benefits of story time to both the children and parents.

The increased availability of a variety of stories through varied platforms gives children of all ages greater access to new and exciting worlds. Where parents would traditionally be able to share one or two stories in a day, a child today can engage with a different story every hour or two. This helps build creativity and grows a child’s sense of the world around them. Because of the range of mediums, children learn to interpret and engage with a story through other senses beyond just listening. The improved graphics in TV and movies have opened up whole worlds of characters that come to life in a new and exciting way not previously possible.

However, an in-person story allows children to interact with it - asking questions, adding their own creative input and immersing themselves in this new world, with their parents along for the adventure. The interpersonal nature of reading to a child allows them to use their own imagination to create a visual world for the story, an important form of creative expression for growing minds. The aspect of time spent together is also important to a child’s development. In a world where children spend time alone with screens for stimulation from a very young age, it’s important that they also receive one-on-one time with parents to develop interpersonal skills and meaningful relationships. 

There is no denying that access to a wide range of stimulation for children can provide many of the benefits of traditional storytelling such as stimulating concentration, imagination and curiosity., but in my opinion, it is not a replacement for the tradition of telling stories. One-on-one time, interaction and a different form of creative expression are only some of these benefits that would be lost if we left all forms of entertainment up to books, TV or movies.